
Title: Bluetooth packet sniffing using Project Ubertooth

Abstract:
Bluetooth traffic analysis is hard. Whilst other radio communications
technologies (802.11, Zigbee) support promiscuous mode, Bluetooth dongles
cannot monitor all traffic due to a pseudo-random frequency hopping system.
Until recently the only way to monitor Bluetooth traffic was to use expensive
software radio peripherals.  Project Ubertooth is an open hardware device that
has opened up new opportunities to capture Bluetooth traffic between devices,
even in non-discoverable mode.

As part of this presentation I will demonstrate the latest frequency hopping
functionality that allows us to follow a connection as it changes frequency
1600 times per second and capture the packet data for analysis.  The talk will
also explain the technical challenges that have been overcome while attempting
to implement Bluetooth protocol analysis on affordable hardware, such as the
obscure error correction methods that many manufacturers have chosen not to
implement in their products.

The demonstrations will include tools written to work with the Ubertooth device
as well as integration with both Kismet and Wireshark.  Additionally some of the
tools will also work with the GnuRadio platform and the USRP hardware, this will
be demonstrated if time allows.


Speaker bio:
Dominic Spill has been investigating Bluetooth security using software radio
since 2007. In that time he has built the first promiscuous Bluetooth packet
sniffer based on software radio[1] and collaborated with other researchers[2]
to produce open source Bluetooth traffic analysis tools.  He is currently
working as a developer and security researcher in Melbourne.

[1] https://www.usenix.org/conference/woot-07/bluesniff-eve-meets-alice-and-bluetooth
[2] http://www.ossmann.com/shmoo-09/ossmann-spill-shmoo-2009.pdf


Submissions should thoroughly outline your desired presentation subject.

If you have any enquiries about submissions, or would like to make a submission, please send an e-mail to presentations@ruxcon.org.au

The deadline for submissions is the 15th of July.
