Presenter Information

Primary Speaker Name*: Dominic Spill
Has the speaker(s) spoken at a previous DEF CON? Yes, DEF CON 17 (2009)
Social media: @dominicgs

Additional Speakers' name(s)* & titles: Jared Boone
Has the speaker(s) spoken at a previous DEF CON? No
Social media: @sharebrained


Presentation Information

Presentation Title: The NSA Playset: USB Tools
Is there a demonstration? Yes
Are you releasing a new tool? Yes, and extensions to existing tools
Are you releasing a new exploit? No
Is there audience participation? No
Length of presentation? 45 minutes

Are you currently submitting this topic to any other conferences held prior
to DEF CON 22? No
Are you submitting to Black Hat USA? No
Has this presentation been given or accepted to any other venue or
conference? No
Is your ability or willingness to speak predicated on your talk being
accepted at Black Hat USA? No

Scheduling

Is there a specific day or time by which you must present?
No, but there may be a follow-up/related Wireless Village talk, so earlier
in the weekend would be better.

Equipment needs & special requests (DEF CON will provide 1 LCD projector
feed, 2 screens, microphones, wired and/or wireless Internet)

Will you require more than 1 LCD projector feed? No
Will you require a white board? No
Are there any other special equipment needs that you will require? No

Speaker Bio(s):
Dominic Spill has been building packet sniffers and researching wireless
security since 2007. He has been the lead developer for Ubertooth for the
past two years while also working on Daisho, FCC.io and now USBProxy.

Jared Boone in open-source hardware hacker. Besides his own art, music, and
software radio projects, he's a contributor to the Ubertooth, HackRF, and
Daisho projects.

Abstract:
USB is the most widely used technology for connecting consumer devices, so
it is no surprise that the NSA ANT catalog featured tools to target USB
hosts. Cheap, low level USB hacking has only been available to our community
since FaceDancer emerged a few years ago. Unfortunately existing tools have
limits such as low speed and restricted number of endpoints which do not
apply to real world devices. USBProxy can be combined with a range of cheap
hardware platforms to prototype new or imitate existing devices while also
allowing us to perform man in the middle attacks between a host and a device
at higher data rates.

The next generation of open source hardware device, with support for USB 3.0
connections is already being designed. Daisho combines off the shelf PHY ICs
with the flexibility of an FPGA to allow us to monitor and modify packets in
real time.


Outline: (timings are a rough guide)

1. introduction (5mins)
  A. Introduction to the NSA Playset
  B. Overview of USB
   i. Basic need-to-know aspects of USB for this talk
  C. History of USB monitoring/injection/etc
    i. Alternative devices (commercial sniffers)
    ii. FaceDancer - uses and limitations
    iii. ANT catalog USB devices - COTTONMOUTH
2. USBProxy (7.5mins)
  A. Hardware - BeagleBone Black or other low cost platforms
  B. USBProxy architecture
    i. how it works
  C. Filtering and injecting packets
  D. Man in the middle capabilities
3. Demonstrations (5mins)
 A. USBProxy pass-through demo
 B. Man in the middle demo
4. Devices as software (5mins)
  A. Implementing a device in software
  B. Writing / porting a fuzzer
5. Fuzzer demo (3mins)
6. Future work - USBProxy (2mins)
 A. Extensions / devices / language bindings
7. Daisho (7.5mins)
  A. Overview of design
  B. Front-end targets
    i. USB 3.0
    ii. planned targets include: HDMI, other high speed technologies
8. Daisho Demo (5mins)
 A. We hope to have an early prototype to show off USB pass-through
 B. If working in time, we would like to demonstrate USB 3.0 monitoring
9. Defense (2.5mins)
 A. How can we detect sniffers, MitM attacks, implants
 B. Are there wasy to defend against them?
10. future work - Daisho (2.5mins)
  A. Writing packet filters for the FPGA
  B. Integration with existing tools
  C. USB 3.0 interface fuzzer

Note:
This is part of a series of proposed talks on The NSA Playset. Each talk
contains content that stands alone and can be selected on individual merit,
but all of them are based on the theme that we can build our own tools with
capabilities similar to those known to be employed by the NSA. The authors
of the NSA Playset series are coordinating with each other to minimize
content overlap and maximize quality and entertainment value.


SUBMISSION AGREEMENTS

Please read and accept these terms by inserting your name where noted.
Failure to do so will render your submission incomplete. Please read these
carefully as some of the terms have changed. Grant of Copyright Use

I warrant that the above work has not been previously published elsewhere,
or if it has, that I have obtained permission for its publication by DEF CON
Communications, Inc. and that I will promptly supply DEF CON Communications,
Inc. with wording for crediting the original publication and copyright
owner. If I am selected for presentation, I hereby give DEF CON
Communications, Inc. permission to duplicate, record and redistribute this
presentation, which includes, but is not limited to, the conference
proceedings, conference CD, video, audio, and hand-outs to the conference
attendees for educational, on-line, and all other purposes. Terms of
Speaking Requirements

1) I will submit a completed presentation, a copy of the tool(s) and/or
code(s), and a reference to all of the tool(s), law(s), Web sites and/or
publications referenced to at the end of my talk and as described in this
CFP submission for publication on the conference CD by 12:00 noon PST, July
15, 2014.

2) I will submit a final Abstract and Biography for the DEF CON website and
Printed Conference Materials by 12:00 noon PST, June 20, 2014.

3) I understand if I fail to submit a completed presentation by July 15,
2014, I may be replaced by an alternate presentation or may forfeit my
honorarium. This decision will be made by DEF CON and I will be informed in
writing of my status.

4) I will include a detailed bibliography as either a separate document or
included within the presentation of all resources cited and/or used in my
presentation.

5) I will complete my presentation within the time allocated to me - not
running over, or excessively under the time allocation.

6) I understand that DEF CON will provide 1 LCD projector feed, 2 screens,
microphones, wired and/or wireless Internet. I understand that I am
responsible for providing all other necessary equipment, including laptops
and machines (with VGA output), to complete my presentation.

7) If applicable, I will submit within 5 days of the completion of the
conference any updated, revised or additional presentation(s) or materials
that were used in my presentation but not included on the conference CD or
conference proceedings. Terms of Speaking Remuneration

1) I understand that I will be responsible for my own hotel and travel
expenses.

2) I understand that DEF CON will issue one $300 payment per presentation.

3) I understand that I may receive payment on-site at the conference. If
not, I must provide a valid name and postal mail address so that payment may
be mailed. Payment will be made in form of corporate check. In some rare
cases, you may be required to complete a W8 (Non-U.S. Citizen) or W9 (U.S.
Citizen) before payment is issued.

4) I understand that I will be paid 30 days from the end of the conference,
after I have completed my presentation. I may choose to waive my $300
speaking fee in exchange for 3 DEF CON Human badges.

5) I understand that should my talk be determined to be unsuitable (e.g. a
vendor or sales pitch, a talk on the keeping of goats, etc.) after I have
presented, that I will not receive an honorarium.

As detailed above,
I, Dominic Spill, have read and agree to the Grant of Copyright Use.
I, Dominic Spill, have read and agree to the Terms of Speaking Requirements.
I, Dominic Spill, have read and agree to the Agreement to Terms of Speaking
Remuneration or I will forfeit my honorarium.
