Speaker Bio(s):
Dominic Spill has been building packet sniffers and researching wireless
security since 2007. He has been lead developer for Ubertooth for the past two
years while also working on Daisho, FCC.io and now USBProxy.

Mike Kershaw aka Dragorn is the author of Kismet and other
open-source wireless security tools, and is the Chief Architect at
Blackphone.

Are you a First Time Presenter? *
Have you given a talk before?
I have no idea how to answer this pair of questions with a single answer.

Will you be releasing code?
Yes

Will there be a live demo?
Yes

Has this talk been given previously?
No

Has this talk been submitted to any other conferences?
No

Title: Driver-less wireless devices

Abstract:
Setting up wireless devices on multiple platforms for penetration tests or
research can be a minefield of driver issues. We propose a new implementation
using cheap, widely available hardware to present a single, unified interface
for tools to use, no matter on which platform they run. We will also attempt to
take advantage of special classes of device to allow driver-less operation from
userspace on multiple platforms such as Android, Windows, and OSX.

Note (not part of the abstract to be published):
This is *very* early work, if things don't work out this could end up as a talk
about failure and why this is not possible, but we're confident that it is
possible. We're attempting to use Dominic's work on USBProxy with Dragorn and
Josh Wright's work on Lorcon to use Linux 802.11 device drivers on a BeagleBone
Black and present the device to a host with a common interface that uses a USB
HID class to avoid driver installation. The results of this work should allow us
to use wireless tools from userspace without permission or driver issues.

Desired speaking slot length: 20 mins

Special Requests?
None

Any possible scheduling conflicts?
Dominic is submitting a talk about USBProxy to the main Defcon CFP, it would be
nice to schedule the WV talk later than that as this follows on from it.
If that talk is not accepted, Dominic may not be able to travel to Vegas, in
that case Mike will give the talk solo.
