Submissions must be sent via email to haxpocfp@haxpo.nl with the following details included:

Name: Dominic Spill

Job title: Software developer - Great Scott Gadgets

Length of your talk: 30minutes - (would happily fill 60 minutes, but I don't
want to take time from other great speakers)

Talk title: Protecting USB devices with USBProxy

Details:
With the introduction of FaceDancer, there has been a surge of interest in
USB security with some excellent USB fuzzing toolkits being made available.
USBProxy is an open framework targeted at the BeagleBone Black to make it
simpler for anyone to monitor, inject or modify data carried over a USB
connection. While the FaceDancer will allow devices to be written on a host
system, we are able to go further and man-in-the-middle connections to
existing devices and inject packets in to a connection as well as
prototyping devices in userspace. We chose to use the BeagleBone Black
because it is cheap, open source hardware which is easy to obtain and allows
us to operate at USB 2.0 Hi-Speed.

Over the past few weeks I have been using our USBProxy tools to investigate
the communication between a host system and USB mass storage devices. I have
written filters for USB traffic that will allow a drive to be mounted and
read as a regular drive, but will block write operations. This allows a
drive to be read while the host believes that it is a read-only filesystem.
There is also the possibility of allowing the host to perform write actions
but silently dropping or logging them on proxy.

These filters allow is to investigate the ways in which untrusted host
systems interact with our USB drives while also protecting them. My
presentation will describe how the filters work and demonstrate how they can
be used to mislead a host about the properties of USB devices.

The presentation will feature a live demonstration of the code. I will also
discuss how this work can be applied when investigating malicious USB
devices or low level malware that makes use of USB devices.

Special requirements: None